### Week 8: Privacy, Identity & Analytics
_10/17/2019_

The articles from this week provide interesting background on the history of privacy, and how it is tightly coupled with the evolution of technology and its place in society. One of the themes that particularly piqued our interest was the exploration of relationships between technology, data, human body and self-improvement (or at least the notion of). Having walked through the history of the concept of privacy in human life, it is also interesting to see mirroring themes between the growth of privacy in the physical and digital spaces. Much like early human life was out in the open and shared within the community, early internet interactions were also similar, where everyone was on the same version of the same site, communicating with everyone together. Then as the technology evolved and people started to live in modular homes with private rooms, surrounding themselves with physical walls to provide shelter, so too did the digital world evolve to build similar “virtual” walls around us. We now log onto “personalized, streamlined” web data, that it is rare, or rather improbable for 2 people to see the exact same content at the same time.
In an article published in October 2019 on WIRED, titled ‘The Telltale Heart’, author Lauren Smiley describes the story of a brutal murder of an elderly woman in a quiet residential neighborhood, with no witnesses, save for a Fitbit activity tracker watch. The heart rate data from the watch gave the investigators the initial clue as to the time of the event, that helped them narrow done and pursue the suspects further. While in this case, the technology provided a very useful insight into this woman’s day, for the other millions of data points it is providing a strangely intimate viewport into a user’s life that becomes uncomfortable when we realize it is being shared without our consent.
Although we perceive its riskiness and are even disturbed by its knowing, many of us give in to obscure data tracking tactics as we convince ourselves that our physical or digital activity in itself is not compromising anything crucial. However, we may not be aware of the power of an aggregate of data that can be stitched together to form a highly detailed picture of an individual. We are often unaware of the reason why each individual data point was collected in the first place, what purpose it serves, and what exactly it means. If we were to examine these questions we may not feel the same way. Working backward, if one were to zoom all the way into a digital image file such as a jpeg they would see a pixel of a specific shade that on its own communicates only one very specific, contextually meaningless dimension: color in a single shade. Zoom out 10% and you will find clusters of these pixels of different shades that if collected from the same source, i.e. a single event, begin to reveal a pattern from which one can conjecture about that source. As you continue to zoom out– adding pixels to the frame –more patterns form and a clearer picture emerge. With enough pixels, one can derive an enormous amount of information about that source and can make use of that source for their own purposes without limitation as they now own a digital copy of it. When the source in this example who is often classified as “the user,” is only seeing a single isolated pixel at a time it is not unusual that they underestimate its value. Artist Risa Puno’s tested this theory with her "Please Enable Cookies” experiment, which revealed alarming level of unawareness about the value and dangers associated with trading of personal data as Pro Publica reported, “380 New Yorkers gave up sensitive personal information — from fingerprints to partial Social Security numbers — for a cookie.” While we demand privacy protection from industry leaders, in practice, we easily and regularly trade those rights for the pleasures of an unencumbered relationship with technology. As that data begins to shape more of our political and personal lives we will test the limits in that relationship.

\- Mohammad + Jai

Sources:
1. Smiley, Lauren. “A Brutal Murder, a Wearable Witness, and an Unlikely Suspect.” Wired, Conde Nast, 23 Sept. 2019, wired.com/story/telltale-heart-fitbit-murder/.
2. Beckett, Lois. “How Much of Your Data Would You Trade for a Free Cookie?” ProPublica, 9 Mar. 2019, propublica.org/article/how-much-of-your-data-would-you-trade-for-a-free-cookie.
