### Manifesto Draft
_11/20/2019_

A large majority of the technology and products we see today can be attributed to the vision and work of legendary researchers such as Mark Weiser and Alan Kay of XEROX PARC, followed by revolutionaries such as Steve Jobs of Apple, and Bill Gates of Microsoft. Their work and philosophies have shaped the technological landscape of today, forever changing the way we work and interact in society. While it does seem like we have materialized "everything that science and technology has to offer", I believe a new paradigm shift and philosophical change is on the horizon; be it Artificial Intelligence developed through rigorous Machine Learning, wireless - wearable devices, ambient voice interfaces or AR holograms. As brilliantly illustrated by Tim Urban in his blog Wait But Why [1], it can be difficult to understand the tech revolution around the corner at this point in time. We understand now, the social, political, cultural, humanitarian and scientific change that technology enables, and the stronger role Design plays in shaping products of the future.

I am at a point in my career where I am critical & skeptical of the technology industry as a whole. Silicon Valley has become an assembly line of "inventions" and "innovations", where they "move fast and break things" at a pace faster than anyone can realize what went wrong. This 'hack / innovation' culture, is driven by venture capital and vague business models, rather for and towards people, for human society and more holistic goals. In the budding age of technology as we know it today, from the 60s to the 80s to early 90s, industry leaders (comprising scientists, engineers, philosophers and designers) had this grand vision for the future of technology. Towards "Augmenting human intellect", as dictated by Douglas Engelbart in 1962 [2], while presenting the very first conceptual modern computer as we know it today. This early work focused a lot on the role it (computers) would play in human life and work, and what it could mean for society. The epitome of Human-Centered Design. While this vision did largely play out as intended, we are now running down the rabbit hole of building technology for the sake of adding technology, with each iteration being ever so more trivial than the last. This is purely my opinion of course. I largely look up to the early research and works from XEROX PARC, which has been foundational to personal computing & the technological landscape of today, and wonder - What is the guiding question that directs our progress and development of today?

While it is easy to think from that view point that everything is headed towards ever more dystopian, oppressive futures, perhaps that is a narrow outlook. In his seminal book, "The Structure of Scientific Revolutions", Thomas Kuhn [3] emphasizes the key role of experimentation as a research method and its effects leading to the scientific revolution. This indeed lead to massive developments in mathematics, physics, astronomy, biology, and chemistry, transforming the views of society about nature. Perhaps we are in that phase now with technology, slowly realizing that technology is amoral and requires a better understanding and handling before utilizing it. As Steven Pinker describes this phenomenon of "progressophobia" [4] as a by-product of technological progress itself, perhaps it clouds our judgement how much "good" overall development of technology has afforded, and that is good enough reason to continue doing so.

My general goals as a creative / designer / technologist is to work & innovate at the intersection of science / technology / art & the humanities. I do not currently have the answer as to how a Designer can address these incredibly complex issues. However, after viewing some of the work as described by these guest lecturers, sharing their ideals and process, I am able to envision a path to embark on this mission and tackle one systemic problem at a time, as the opportunity provides. My intent is to create a body of work in the commercial + speculative future realm or technology. At present, as well as the forthcoming stages of my career, I would like to work with tech and services that aim to improve human life (either healthcare), or something that would help people get the most out of limited resources (such as in the plausible immediate future where resources might be scarce). With an ever-increasing aging population, I would like to spend more of time focusing on products and experiences for accessible technology for people of all abilities. In my own practice, I would like to move away from the "fake it till you make it" culture in the industry, especially after watching the rise and fall of companies like Theranos. And finally, I want my work to less of "hacking innovation", by putting together ideas and technologies gathered from others, and instead 'Steal Like An Artist'.

---

References:
[1] Tim Urban. The AI Revolution: The Road to Superintelligence (Part 1). Wait But Why. January 2015. (Source: https://waitbutwhy.com/2015/01/artificial-intelligence-revolution-1.html, Last accessed November 2019)
[2] Douglas C. Engelbart. Augmenting Human Intellect: A Conceptual Framework. Stanford Research Institute. 1962.
[3] Thomas S. Kuhn. The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. Second Edition. 1970.
[4] Steven Pinker. Enlightenment Now. The Case for Reason, Science, Humanism and Progress. 2018
