### Week 4: The Dark Side of Knowledge
_09/26/2019_

This week's articles were themed on dark uses of design & information (technology), and the negative implications they can afford. It was surprising to read about IBM's involvement during the second world war, as this was not something that I was aware of. the Handbook of tyranny was certainly an interesting read, with the author being quite philosophical about design and technology, both in the past and present.

The readings highlight elements of designs that work against us, the humans that occupy and/or come into contact with it. Or at least in some cases, it is perceived as such. In the example of IBMs punch cards, they were a revolutionary form of information technology to afford efficient record keeping and data tabulation. As a technology and services company, it was well designed and implemented, with some case studies highlighting the level of effectiveness it offered administrations that used it, as opposed to those that did not. But in the hands of Germany in WWII, it became an invisible chain to tether their prisoners of war.

Translating that example to present day databases and data mining organizations, similar pervasive, negative design systems operate at larger scales, offering a more customized form of marginalization. There is already a dearth of literature and opinions on the coming age of AI and ML, so instead of focusing the negative design systems that are already in place and the damage it has done, I would like look towards steps that can be taken now in order to correct our way going forward. More of us (as individuals and organizations) need to take cue from perseverant people like David Carroll, who ended having to use legal channels to repossess his personal data. From a business perspective, organizations will always be encouraged to pursue every avenue of monetization, despite regulations, unless it is a question of serious legal liability. Despite acts like GDPR existing in place to discourage data malpractice, it is still merely a suggestive framework rather than a prescriptive one. So long as we don't act to pursue and demand our right to ownership, it won't be made to be easily traceable. As designers, it is vital for us to include this approach in our manifesto to guide our work, and start making short-term changes with a view towards long-term reform in the industry.

\-Jai
