### Week 4: Vision, Representation, Power
_09/18/2019_

The first article talks about the power of visuals in the world, how it has the potential to evoke positive or negative emotions, and what they represent / can be interpreted. When it comes to objects and images, these can be attributed a lot to human psychology, as well as cultural context. As humans, we are always trying to subconsciously project ourselves on the world around us, and thus, in my opinion, I believe “representation” is derived from the subjective experience of being able to connect with the object. Thus, the concept of interpretation and representation is always subject to context, and perhaps should not be tested as an objective metric. If objects are created by a maker “in his/her own image”, as an expression of their idea as well as themselves, the success criteria for that object largely depends on if its viewing context is the same as the one it was created in. So, when the artist Rene Magritte highlights that the very act of labelling as something we should think about, it illustrates that any object can lose its representation depending on the context. With our class activity today (audio tour of Mmuseumm https://www.mmuseumm.com/ ), we hope to illustrate this very fact, and use it as a basis for starting conversations on the value of everyday objects; and perhaps share some short stories of unusual objects from our lives that have strong value.

The desire to monitor the masses at the individual level without having to expend the resources required for that level of individual attention has presented a dilemma that was previously addressed with structural organization. We built an entire infrastructure around the security intelligence, privileging those eyes with the best angles, lighting, and positioning to view and judge behavior in a manner optimized for the human eye. This approach was highly problematic not only because of the level of power it gave to the responsible individual but because of its treatment of all those under its gaze. In an environment of constant suspicion, human behavior itself changes. As a form of prevention, this method is effective but when applied to the general public, this level of suspicion is inhibiting. In the age of digital surveillance, the CCTV aims to invisible and for the most part has been successful in doing so but its weakness lies in its ability to impose and prevent cases—it has a lot of room for optimization. Artificial intelligence has emerged as the future of surveillance technology, building a brain for the eyes that are always watching. The important questions are surrounding the design and education of this intelligence. Stakeholders try to argue that it can be truly objective but that doesn’t exist in our world, so what form of bias or what perspective will now privilege as a system of education to train the brain that will interpret the hundreds of millions of CCTV eyes around the world. Will that education be emotionally, socially, culturally, racially, gender, and age aware? If we continue to feed the machine existing data, the framing of a selected narrative of human history by which it will understand human behavior will prove to be too limited for practical use. In this case, it will require an enormity of failures to learn from before it can begin to separate the undesirable reality of our biased framing from the meaningful, detectable patterns of behavior. An important detail is whether those failures happen in a lab using numbers or in the world using lives.

\- Mohammad + Jai
