### Week 6: Embodiment and interaction through technology - designing for a collective future
_10/03/2019_

The article laid out by Paul Dourish is founded on some of the early research work performed by Mark Weiser and Alan Kay of XEROX PARC, who coined the concept of ubiquitous computing. As Dourish mentions in his paper, at the dawn of personal computing technology, Weiser and Kay were concerned about the direction in which computing technology would evolve - would they continue to be 'a machine in a box' placed in someone's home as an appliance, or would it be possible to have this kind of computational abilities available universally in different contextual environments. Ubiquitous technology did not only apply to have modern personal computers placed everywhere, but rather, different kinds of objects with varying levels of computational power that were hidden in plain sight, just like light switches and water taps.

Since these ubiquitous technologies would require some kind of physical form, Tangible Computing was derived by Hiroshi Ishii as an extension of the concept, focusing on the _physicality_ of the technology and how it would afford interactions between humans and computers. Similarly, Social Computing was also founded as a sub-domain of research in the space, focusing on the human-social implications of technology and design, and the related ethnomethodologies of studying it. In both the domains, technology is such an intrinsically physically constrained resource, that it embodies the functionality of computers, but also the tangible form and the social medium.

In the new millenium since, a lot of our current day technology has still remained in the speculated scope of possibilities. We have achieved a form of ubiquitous computing, with most persons having at least one device in their vicinity at any given point in time (\*This mostly holds true for Developed and Developing countries). Computing technology has embodied a variety of different social mediums for people from different locations and walks of life to be able to interact and communicate with one another in a myriad of ways. With the ability to make smaller devices, we now interact with (tangible) computing devices very differently than from the age of the early 90s. But at the same time, I don't feel that we are still on the path to expand and capitalize on trying to maximize the use of human abilities and skills, but rather, trying to maximize the functionality for a minimum level of interaction. For example, we still use Human Interface devices such as Mice, Touchpads or touch screens to 'couple' with these machines to interact with abstract virtual objects. There may still be some time before we can truly bridge the gap between virtual and real worlds in a completely tangible and social aspect that we as humans have come to expect.

\-Jai
